Document for projecting binding metadata (#36640)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/sbo-configuration-of-directory-path-to-project-binding-data.adoc

[id="sbo-configuration-of-directory-path-to-project-binding-data_{context}"]
= Configuration of the directory path to project the binding data inside workload container

> For projecting the binding data, by default, files are mounted at a specific directory in your workload resource. You can configure the directory path using the existing `SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT` environment variable setup in the container where your workload runs.

Reviewer: Consider rephrasing this based on the suggestion for the previous file.

Reviewer: Still,  in the first sentence, please avoid the passive voice by naming the thing that mounts the files. 

Often, when a user encounters a passive phrase like this one, they have to carry a sort of mental burden until they come across the answer to the mystery. Too many of these burdens and they will end up tired and frustrated.

> For projecting the binding data, by default, files are mounted at a specific directory in your workload resource. You can configure the directory path using the existing `SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT` environment variable setup in the container where your workload runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, {servicebinding-title} mounts the binding data as files at a specific directory in your workload resource. You can configure the directory path using the `SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT` environment variable setup in the container where your workload runs.
```

> .Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example: Binding data mounted as files
```

----
$SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT <1>
├── account-database <2>
│   ├── type <3>
│   ├── provider <4>
│   ├── uri
│   ├── username
│   └── password
└── transaction-event-stream <2>
    ├── type
    ├── connection-count
    ├── uri
    ├── certificates
    └── private-key
----
<1> Root directory.
<2> Directory that stores the binding data.
<3> Mandatory identifier that identifies the type of the binding data projected into the corresponding directory.

> <4> An optional identifier to identify the provider so that the application can identify the type of  backing service it can connect to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> An optional identifier to identify the provider so that the application can identify the type of backing service it can connect to.
```

Reviewer: Consider adding or removing articles to the beginnings of these callouts.

Author: WIll change it to: "Optional identifier ...."

Reviewer: Please search our documentation to see how `Optional:` is the preferred form.

> For consuming binding data as environment variables, you can use the built-in language feature of your programming language of choice to read environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To consume binding data from environment variables, use the built-in feature of your programming language that can read environment variables.
```

.Example: Python client usage
----
import os
username = os.getenv("USERNAME")
password = os.getenv("PASSWORD")
----

== Computation of the final path for projecting the binding data as files

> The following table summarizes the configuration of how the final path for the binding data projection is computed when files are mounted at a specific directory, by default:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following table summarizes the configuration of how the final path for the binding data projection is computed when files are mounted at a specific directory:
```
IMHO, not necessary to mention here that the the binding data is mounted as files by default. The table sais what happens in a situation when SBO mounts as files. For the context of this table, It doesn't matter if that is the default behaviour of SBO or not.

.Summary of the final path computation
[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
| `SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT` | Final path

| Not available
| `/bindings/<ServiceBinding_ResourceName>`

| `dir/path/root`
| `dir/path/root/<ServiceBinding_ResourceName>`
|===

> In the previous table, the `<ServiceBinding_ResourceName>` entry specifies the name of the `ServiceBinding` resource that you configure in the `.metadata.name` section of the custom resource definition (CRD).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous table, the `<ServiceBinding_ResourceName>` entry specifies the name of the `ServiceBinding` resource that you configure in the `.metadata.name` section of the custom resource (CR).
```
It's actulally the custom resource that caused the particular binding, not CRD

> For accessing and consuming the binding data within the existing `SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT` environment variable, you can use the built-in language feature of your programming language of choice to read environment variables.

Reviewer: "To access and consume the binding data from the `SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT` environment variable, ..."

Author: WIll implement this.

.Example: Python client usage
----
from pyservicebinding import binding
try:
    sb = binding.ServiceBinding()
except binding.ServiceBindingRootMissingError as msg:
    # log the error message and retry/exit
    print("SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT env var not set")
sb = binding.ServiceBinding()
bindings_list = sb.bindings("postgresql")
----

> In the previous example, the `bindings_list` parameter contains the binding data for the `postgresql` database service type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous example, the `bindings_list` variable contains the binding data for the `postgresql` database service type.
```
